# pandas-challenge
Project to create and manipulate Pandas DataFrames to analyze school and standardized test data.

## Analysis

This analysis looks at the reading and math scores for PyCity schools district, consisting of 15 high schools with over 39,0000 students. The 15 schools consist of 8 charter and 7 district schools with a total buget of $24,649,428. This translates into a per student budget of about $620 on average for both charter and district schools. The overall math and reading scores break down as follows. The average math and reading scores are 79 and and 82 points, respectively. The percent of students passing (grade of 70 or above) math and reading stands at 75% and 86%, with only 65% passing both classes.

However, these numbers do not tell the bigger story, which is the relatively large differences in test scores and passing rates betweeen district and charter schools. For example, the top five schools were all charter based with an overall pass rate for math and reading of over 90%. On the other hand, the buttom five schools where district based with a pass rate for both math and reading of only about 50%. This trend holds irrespective of spending per student, with charter schools, on average, spending less on each students. However, charter schools tend to be small and medium size (<2000 students) while district schools are all large (2000 - 5000 students) so that may explain the spending per student differences.

Whereas charter schools hold an advantage over district schools when it comes to students passing both math and reading, looking at the average scores for math and reading seperately shows some interesting trends. When it comes to average reading scores the values are 80 for district schools and 83 for charter schools. The average math scores are a bit further apart at 81 (charter) vs 76 (district). The average reading and math scores are fairly consistent accross all grade levels from 9th to 12th. The percent of students passing reading stands at 97% vs 81% for charter and district schools, repectively. The percent of students passing math, however, shows the main area of weakness of students enrolled in district schools. Only 67% of students in the district schools pass math, constrast with 94% in charter schools. Clearly a far greater number of students in district schools struggle with passing math than in passing reading.

In conclusion, district schools clearly need to put more emphasis on getting students to do better in math, and that may bring their overall passing rate more in line with charter schools. One way to accomplish this based on the provided dataset might be to reduce the district school size from large to small and medium size.